The project's rules for agents (naima rules):

MUST · agents · Fast mode (rules/fast-mode)
    Of paramount importance. Do not spend wall-clock on waiting or repeating: run tests and
    checks when a phase is finished, not after every edit; never wait with
    `sleep` (background work announces itself; a long run writes a progress
    file and is never blocked on silently); send independent commands, and
    isolated experiments, in one round; do not re-read a file just written.
    Ack: "Fast mode on".

    Why: wall-clock spent waiting is spent by the owner too.

MUST · agents · Irreversible actions (rules/irreversible-actions)
    Ask first: deleting data or items, force-push,
    rewriting published history, discarding someone's uncommitted work.

    Why: what cannot be undone is the owner's decision, never the agent's.

MUST · agents · Quiet mode (rules/quiet-mode)
    Of paramount importance. Minimise tokens. Do not narrate work or explain routine steps.
    Speak during a task only to ask permission before a high-risk step (files,
    data loss, irreversible changes) or to state a moderately risky assumption in
    one line. At the end: a 1–2 line summary, unless details are asked for. Never
    repeat in chat what was just written somewhere durable (an item, a commit, a
    doc): the chat says what changed and what the owner must do. Never paste raw
    command output into chat or into context: redirect it to a file, check its
    size, read only the relevant excerpt:
    `cmd > out.log 2>&1; echo EXIT=$?; wc -l out.log`. Ack: "Quiet mode on".

    Why: the owner's attention and the context window are the scarcest resources
    of the project; what is durable is read where it is written.

MUST · agents · Reporting (rules/reporting)
    Answer only what was asked. Never a bare identifier: an item
    id, a file, an acronym or a label is said together with what it is, every
    time. "Measured" and "I think" are different registers; a guess never arrives
    as a fact, and a claim is checked against the repository before it is
    reported. No number without the number it is compared to. When corrected, fix
    the thing, not the framing.

    Why: a bare identifier forces a lookup, and a guess reported as a fact is
    acted on as one.

MUST · agents · Simple mode (rules/simple-mode)
    Write so that reading costs no effort: the answer first; short,
    structured, skimmable; bullets and concrete next actions ("now / next /
    later"); at most one question at a time; track goal, state, blockers and next
    step; point out hidden assumptions and unfinished loops; direct, calm,
    practical. Ack: "Simple mode on".

    Why: a message the owner has to decode costs more than the work it reports.
